README.md, before:

# Defender-MCP

A lightweight Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that uses **PowerShell only** to scan files and report Windows Defender antivirus state. No MpCmdRun.exe, no WMI, no AMSI.

## Tools

| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `scan_file` | Scan a single file path using Windows Defender |
| `quick_scan` | Trigger a system-wide quick scan |
| `get_status` | Report current antivirus state |

## Setup

```bash
npm install
npm run build
```

## Usage

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "defender": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["C:/Temp/GitHub/Defender-MCP/dist/index.js"]
    }
  }
}
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `DEFENDER_FILE_SCAN_TIMEOUT_MS` | `60000` | File scan timeout |
| `DEFENDER_QUICK_SCAN_TIMEOUT_MS` | `600000` | Quick scan timeout |
| `DEFENDER_POWERSHELL_PATH` | `powershell.exe` | PowerShell executable |

## Requirements

- Windows with Windows Defender
- Node.js >= 18
- No admin privileges required

## Testing

```bash
npm test
```

Commit message:

Security hardening, type safety, test coverage, graceful shutdown
- Add centralized config (src/config.ts): bounded timeout parsing, execution policy, path allowlist
- Replace ExecutionPolicy Bypass with RemoteSigned (configurable via DEFENDER_EXECUTION_POLICY)
- Add DEFENDER_ALLOWED_PATHS allowlist enforcement in validation
- Add Continue='Stop' to all PowerShell scripts
- Treat non-empty stderr as error in runPowerShell
- Replace all catch(err: any) with unknown + guarded extraction
- Add typed payload interfaces for PowerShell JSON responses
- Add zod direct dependency
- Add graceful SIGINT/SIGTERM shutdown in index.ts
- Add 4 new test files: tool-handlers, server registration, expanded validation/powershell
- 18 tests passing across 4 test suites
- Create 6 openspec change proposals (security-hardening, powershell-error-handling, dependency-and-types, test-coverage, doc-alignment, graceful-shutdown)
- Update initial-implementation openspec to reflect actual 3-tool scope
- Rewrite Architecture.md for implemented architecture

README.md, after:

# Defender-MCP

A lightweight Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that uses **PowerShell only** to scan files and report Windows Defender antivirus state.

## Tools

| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `scan_file` | Scan a single file path using Windows Defender |
| `quick_scan` | Trigger a system-wide quick scan |
| `get_status` | Report current antivirus state |

## Setup

```bash
npm install
npm run build
```

## Usage

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "defender": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["C:/Temp/GitHub/Defender-MCP/dist/index.js"]
    }
  }
}
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `DEFENDER_FILE_SCAN_TIMEOUT_MS` | `60000` | File scan timeout in ms (clamped to `1000..3600000`) |
| `DEFENDER_QUICK_SCAN_TIMEOUT_MS` | `600000` | Quick scan timeout in ms (clamped to `1000..3600000`) |
| `DEFENDER_STATUS_TIMEOUT_MS` | `30000` | Status query timeout in ms (clamped to `1000..3600000`) |
| `DEFENDER_ALLOWED_PATHS` | current working directory | Comma-separated absolute allowlist for `scan_file`; use `*` to disable restriction |
| `DEFENDER_EXECUTION_POLICY` | `RemoteSigned` | PowerShell execution policy (`Bypass` is opt-in if explicitly set) |
| `DEFENDER_POWERSHELL_PATH` | `powershell.exe` | PowerShell executable |

## Requirements

- Windows with Windows Defender
- Node.js >= 18
- Elevated privileges are not required for basic status queries; scan behavior can vary by local policy.

## Testing

```bash
npm test
```
